The Joe Rogan experience. What's your thought on Khabib Nurmagomedov.
Extremely embraced. His kid is, uh,
deeply, deeply embracive I've. Um, uh,
he's coming to the academy a couple of times before fights.
I've never actually seen him train. Um, he, uh,
after his fight in Madison square garden,
he bought himself and a group of his friends,
his training partners came into the academy,
trained in my Monday afternoon class could be didn't train.
He just sat on the bench because he'd just support on Saturday nights.
Of course he's not going to train, but his, um, his, uh,
his training partners came in and trained with the squad.
And that was a fun afternoon. They rolled with, um,
I think mostly Nikki Ryan and, um, uh, it's hard for them of course,
because it's submission grappling. That's not really what they do. They,
they do more the interface of, of, um, grappling combined with striking.
So they had autonomy, but, but, uh, he struck me as a very, very nice person.
He shockingly begged for his weight division. Shocking was shocking to me. So,
um,
like all the people coming out of the Caucasus regions of Russia has wrestling
is extremely good. Um,
they have probably the best wrestling program in the world that whole area
stretching from, uh, uh,
SEASHA through dog Astons for church near all the way down to Iran that,
that areas as the heartbeat of wrestling in the world,
and it shows all their fighters,
they're all strong in wrestling and United add to that, the various skills.
And you've got a tough, tough group of people.
Yeah, it was extremely,
I bet I've been impressed with every single performance he's had in the octagon.
I mean, he's undefeated, which is incredibly rare in and of itself,
but in the 155 pound division, even more impressive,
but the way he mauled Barboza.
Christ. Yeah.
You could see the fight was essentially over halfway through round one. Yes.
Yeah. You could see it in Barboza his face. He was drained. Yeah.
And that was an incredibly impressive performance. Um, I, uh,
uh, obviously there's still,
you can't put them yet in the greatest of all time category.
But he doesn't want a title that wasn't even challenged for it yet, but.
You definitely get the sense that if, if he had had a title fight by now,
he probably would have been a champion by now.
Oh, ham versus Connor, Jesus Christ.
That's what I want to say him versus Connor in Russia or him versus Tony,
Tony Ferguson, and then would be a very interesting thing.
Well, what's interesting about those two fights as you have,
basically polar opposites could leave of them would get off as a control based
fighter. Whereas, uh,
Tony Ferguson is a scramble based fighter and just that
clash in styles is going to be fascinating with regards Conor McGregor and
Khabib limo get off. The feeling one gets is that if they did fight,
it would be a complete shutout in one of two directions.
It's either like a man beating up a child on the ground,
or it's just a flush knock out the guy,
unable to cover distance properly and walking into a left-hand.
And as in catastrophic chaos,
and you feel like there's potential for it to go in both directions.
Uh, and it's, that's a fight I don't think goes to the distance. It's uh,
it's one way or the other. Yeah.
Um,
I feel like what Connor presents it's interesting in terms of danger is speed.
And one shot knockout power with his hands.
And Khabib has been hurt coming in.
By Michael Johnson.
It's really the only adversity ever suffered inside the Arctic.
And he dealt with it. Well, that's a good sign for debate. It's the.
Sliver of hope that every opponent clings to,
they watch that one moment where Michael Johnson clipped him and he's like,
look, look, he's human. He can be hurt. It's like the Terminator.
If it believes that.
They believe that was predator.
Oh yeah. What'd I say Terminator. Yeah.
You just up your arm reference. Sorry. I'm sorry.
Uh, yeah, I did it up. Um,
but I think that Connor has been overwhelmed on the ground though.
And he's been overwhelmed by Nate Diaz and he's been controlled in the ground
box.
Yeah.
One gets the feeling that whatever amount of control they were able to impose on
them will be nothing compared with what could be could impose.
Moreover Khabib is, um, it's a much more dangerous form of control. Could be,
it could be, has a program of hitting people on the ground,
which is substantially better than either of the two athletes you just
mentioned. Yes. Um,
and a big differences when Khabib gets you on the ground. You're not getting up.
No.
You're getting mauled and it's almost like a spider,
like he's injecting venom into you and slowly but surely like weakening your
body. Yeah. Like you, you see, after the first round,
when Barboza gets up, it's like, okay, you mean he's,
he's alive still. Yeah. But this is a different person now.
And going into the second round, I mean,
the Barboza gave an admirable account of himself.
He showed himself to be a true.
He did try a couple of spending backaches and some of them were relatively
close. Yeah.
Barboza is kicking heavy strategy though is very different than Connors.
Connors kicks are just the opposite. His kicks are just probes.
He's sort of poking at you,
poking at you and putting things out in front of you.
And he's just trying to dang. He just trying to drop that hard.
Left-hand on you.
It's a fascinating guy to watch. Fascinating.
I always undervalued him when he first came in the UFC. I said, oh,
it's hype it's hybrid. But the more I started, the more I saw. Yeah. He said,
he's very, very.
Well. He's also, he mind people. He mind people in a way that,
um, but I don't think he's mine.
Could be. I don't think.
That's going to happen.
I just think we'd be dealing with a totally different kind of human being.
Those people from Dagestan are just so hard.
It's just a hard part of the world. They're just, they're made of hardier stuff.
You know what I mean? It's just like, they have to deal with way more.
Not that people in Ireland are soft. They're hard people too.
I just think that with I've always said the most important.
If you have a pyramid of technique, when it comes to, uh, mixed martial arts,
the base of the pyramid,
the most important thing is the ability to control the grappling.
The ability to take a guy down. If you can take a guy down and control him,
you have a significant advantage. You can choose where the fight takes place.
And if you're competent in the standup, which could be,
is definitely competent in the standup. So you are adequate in the standup,
but overwhelming. When it gets to the ground,
you can present problems with a guy standing up, which, which case is problems.
The guy has to deal with the striking aspects, which open up the takedowns.
I wholeheartedly agree with you, but I'll go a little further.
Whenever someone asks me, what are the, what, what are the programs? Well,
what do you look for when you see a guy dominating fights? What, what,
what makes someone go in the right directions for their training and,
and the fighting itself? I always say there's three things.
If you show me a fighter who can one dominate the
setups to dominate the pace of the fight
and three, how can I phrase this?
Dominate the simple direction of the fight. Three things, dominate the setups,
dominate the pace, dominate the direction.
You show me a fighter who can do those three things.
And I'll show you a fighter who can win 95% of the fights. He gets into
dominate the setups, dominate the pace, dominated direction.
Thinking about someone I could be, or anyone who comes from a,
a strong wrestling or judo jujitsu with take-downs baseline.
Is it always going to be a dominate the direction they determine whether it goes
down to the ground over the right, say, standing
to be always dominates the pace of the fight. Once you're on the ground,
you're on top. The other guys is reacting to what you're doing,
trying to get back up to his feet, et cetera, et cetera. You're dominating pace.
If there's one weakness that could be pears is,
is not as strong dominating the setups to get to those areas where
he can dominate pace and, uh, et cetera, et cetera.
If he's going to lose a fight,
it's going to be in that area and corner more than anything else.
As a guy who dominates the setups,
you set it before the kicks of probes. They don't kicks.
It's not trying to hurt you with a kicks. He's probing. He hurts you with this.
Yeah. Okay.
So Connor's skill is he's a master of dominating setups,
especially in the standing position,
but to Beavs mastery out of those three critical areas for domination and all
forms of fighting is he's a dominant, uh,
he's incredibly dominant in determining the direction of the fight and the pace
of the fight. That's why he never gets tired in his way. It's,
it's got a very high work rate, but he never gets tired.
Never see him just completely shattered.
Despite the fact he's working hard the whole time.
And the F despite the fact that he significantly weakened themselves to make 155
pounds, which apparently he's done far better.
Now he had a real nutritionist heading into this camp and it was much easier for
him to cut.
The weight. I'd be fascinated to see him fly at one.
70 And well, that's a plan, apparently that was a plan.
And Woodley was joking around about it saying, he'll send him nutritionists.
They'll say, keep his psycho down at 1 55. Was his exact,
exact quote. Yeah.
Yeah. With regards to your point, before you saying you, this,
this core combat skill,
the most important one that you as a commentator look for,
when you look at finance, you know, um, can you determine, uh, you, you,
you put grappling skill as, as the number one saying,
whether it be wrestling with every Samba, with a beat you to it. So whatever.
Um, I would go further and say, yeah,
there's three things that I look for who dominates the setups,
who dominates the pace who dominates the direction.